Licensing guidelines for authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADI) | APRA Skip to main content Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) - click to go to the home page Choose Industry Open Menu Search Open/Close Menu Choose your industry Open/Close Menu Authorised deposit-taking institutions Prudential and reporting standards Consultations Register of authorised deposit-taking institutions News and publications Statistical publications Letters, notes and advice Reporting resources Fees and levies Licensing guidelines Legislation, determinations and orders Financial Claims Scheme Frequently asked questions Open/Close Menu General insurance Prudential and reporting standards Consultations Register of general insurers News and publications Statistical publications Letters, notes and advice Reporting resources Fees and levies Licensing guidelines Legislation and legal instruments National claims and policies database Underwriting - Lloyd's in Australia Financial Claims Scheme Questions about insurers Open/Close Menu Life insurance and friendly societies Prudential and reporting standards Consultations Register of life insurers and friendly societies News and publications Statistical publications Letters, notes and advice Reporting resources Fees and levies Licensing guidelines Legislation and legal instruments Life insurance claims management Questions about insurers Open/Close Menu Private health insurance Prudential and reporting standards Consultations Register of private health insurers News and publications Statistical publications Letters, notes and advice Licensing guidelines Reporting resources Fees and levies Legislation and rules Forms for private health insurers Questions about insurers Open/Close Menu Superannuation Prudential and reporting standards Consultations Register of superannuation institutions News and publications Statistical publications Letters, notes and advice The Annual Superannuation Performance Test Superannuation product performance Licensing guidelines and forms for superannuation Reporting resources Fees and levies Retirement savings account providers Legislation and legal instruments Lost members and wound up funds Tax file number approvals Cross-agency process for retirement income stream products Frequently asked questions Forms for superannuation entities Questions about superannuation funds Open/Close Menu Non regulated industries Non-regulated entities reporting to APRA Medical defence organisations Open/Close Menu Cross-Industry Registered financial corporations standards and guidance Registered financial corporations List of registered financial corporations Register of non-operating holding companies Reporting for registered financial corporations Licensing non-operating holding companies Open/Close Menu Data and statistics Open/Close Menu Statistics Statistical publications Economic and financial statistics - frequently asked questions Standard business reporting Open/Close Menu Direct to APRA D2A frequently asked questions Validation and derivation rules Sending electronic documents to APRA Extranet frequently asked questions D2A system requirements Download and install D2A Common D2A errors Plain English Taxonomy D2A and Extranet have replaced AUSkey with myGovID and RAM Open/Close Menu APRA Connect Accessing APRA Connect APRA Connect support material APRA Connect Taxonomy Artefacts APRA Connect release notes RegTech access to APRA Connect test Migrating D2A Collections Support Material APRA Connect information security and technical specifications Videos for APRA Connect Open/Close Menu Superannuation Data Transformation project Consultation Related news Frequently Asked Questions Open/Close Menu Registers Authorised deposit-taking institutions General Insurance Life insurance companies and friendly societies Private health insurance Superannuation institutions Non-operating holding companies Registered financial corporations Enforceable undertakings Infringement notices Disqualifications Open/Close Menu APRA's functions Open/Close Menu Policy and regulation Prudential policy Regulation impact statements Open/Close Menu APRA’s licensing process Step 1 - Early contact with APRA Step 2 - Lodging an application Step 3 - Assessment Step 4 - Post licensing APRA's licensing process - frequently asked questions Open/Close Menu Industry supervision Supervision philosophy Supervision Risk and Intensity Model International assessments Notify a breach Industry supervision - frequently asked questions Enforcement Resolution Open/Close Menu Financial Accountability Regime FAR Presentations Legislation and Rules under the FAR FAR Privacy Collection Notice APRA Connect reporting forms – instruction guides Industry fees and levies Open/Close Menu Grants and scholarships Brian Gray Scholarship program Open/Close Menu Submissions Royal Commission recommendations Open/Close Menu News and publications Open/Close Menu News Media releases Speeches Events Information for journalists Open/Close Menu Publications Corporate publications Information papers and reports Letters, notes and advice APRA Insight Open/Close Menu About us About APRA Accountability Enabling legislation Open/Close Menu APRA's commitment Government expectations of APRA Service charter Code of conduct Inclusion and diversity APRA's executive and governance APRA organisation structure Open/Close Menu Accountability and reporting Gift and hospitality register Regulator performance framework International assessments Capability review response Information policies Memoranda of understanding and letters of arrangement Open/Close Menu Career opportunities Why work at APRA Graduate careers Grants and scholarships Current vacancies Open/Close Menu Knowledge Centre Open/Close Menu APRA Explains Who we are What is prudential regulation? What we do APRA’s place in the wider regulatory environment The Financial Claims Scheme Capital Capital buffers in banking Liquidity in banking Risk-weighted assets Applying to use restricted words Capital resilience in Australia’s general insurance industry Successor fund transfers in superannuation APRA’s role in private health insurance premium increases Importance of managing operational risk Cyber security Questions about authorised deposit-taking institutions Questions about general, life and private health insurers Questions about superannuation funds Glossary Open/Close Menu Financial Claims Scheme About the Financial Claims Scheme Banks, building societies and credit unions Types of banking institutions covered List of authorised deposit-taking institutions covered Types of accounts covered Different banking businesses under one banking licence Deposit checker - Are your deposits protected? General insurers covered Insurance policy holders covered Financial Claims Scheme frequently asked questions Australian Government deposit guarantee scheme seal Financial Claims Scheme glossary Contact us Extranet Prudential Handbook APRA Connect Breadcrumb Home Choose your industry Authorised deposit-taking institutions Licensing guidelines for authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADI) Licensing guidelines for authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADI) Understand APRA’s licensing process as an ADI. Licensing process at a glance Engaging early with APRA's licensing team is highly recommended. This helps prospective applicants understand the licensing process, clarify expectations and identify potential issues before lodging an application. The pre-application process is structured to support applicants in refining their business plans and receive feedback to ensure alignment with APRA's prudential requirements. This stage typically involves several engagements where APRA provides feedback and understands your readiness to apply. Key focus areas include governance, ownership and controllers, financial resources, risk management, IT strategy, outsourcing, and contingency planning. When ready, businesses submit their formal application with Board-approved documentation and pay the application fee. APRA begins its assessment when a substantial and high-quality set of material has been received. Applicants must provide detailed information about their ownership, financial position, governance and risk frameworks. The licensing assessment process is iterative, often taking 12-18 months, as APRA reviews, requests updates, and assesses the applicant’s ability to operate safely and soundly within the financial system. Once APRA completes its review, a decision is typically issued within 90 days. If approved, licences may include conditions tailored to the specific business model. If declined, APRA will provide written reasons and information outlining review and appeal options. After licensing, entities are subject to APRA's prudential standards, ongoing supervision, and annual levies. Entities must report regularly through APRA's data collection systems, promptly notify APRA of material changes, and comply with industry-specific disclosure and approval requirements. Additional conditions or reporting may apply depending on the licence type. All licensed institutions are listed on APRA's public registers , supporting transparency and accountability across the financial system. Read APRA's licensing process in more detail Key documents Information paper: ADIs New entrants - a pathway to sustainability PDF 1.1 MB Published August 2021 Guidelines Licensing: Locally-incorporated ADIs PDF 1.71 MB Published August 2021 Guidelines: Overseas Banks Operating in Australia PDF 1 MB Published August 2021 Guidelines: Restricted Words under the Banking Act August 2018 PDF 470.49 KB Published August 2018 Guidelines on authorisation of providers of purchased payment facilities PDF 121.91 KB Published December 2019 Who needs an authorised deposit-taking institution (ADI) license? Under the Banking Act 1959 (the Banking Act), it is an offence to conduct banking business in Australia without the proper authority. If your business intends to conduct any business that can be classed as banking business, you need an authorised deposit-taking institution (ADI) licence from APRA giving you the authority to conduct banking business in Australia. Part 5 of the Banking Act defines ‘banking business’ as consisting of both taking deposits (other than as part-payment for identified goods or services) and making advances of money, as well as other financial activities prescribed by regulations made under the Banking Act. The Banking Act only allows corporations to carry on banking business in Australia. This means APRA cannot consider applications from associations, partnerships or unincorporated entities. Locally incorporated ADIs APRA recognises achieving an ADI licence requires significant resources and capabilities which can take time to develop, that new ADIs have unique challenges and their risk profiles differ when compared to established ADIs. APRA’s approach to the licensing and supervision of new entrant ADIs seeks to strike an appropriate balance between supporting entities to enter and thrive in the banking sector, while ensuring financial system stability and protecting the interests of depositors. The below information paper sets out APRA’s expectations for current and prospective new entrants. It outlines APRA’s expectations and approach for each step of the new entrant’s pathway to sustainability, including: ADI licensing: the two pathways available to obtain an ADI licence and the application process Restricted ADIs: APRA’s prudential and supervisory approach to operating with a Restricted ADI licence New ADIs: following either the restricted or direct pathway to a licence, adjustments to APRA’s prudential and supervisory frameworks to support the building of a sustainable business; and General information: to guide all new entrants in setting up an ADI. Information paper: ADIs New entrants - a pathway to sustainability Licensing pathways for locally-incorporated ADIs To encourage a wide variety of applicants, APRA has two pathways available to become an ADI: the direct pathway and the restricted pathway. The direct pathway is available if you have the existing resources and capabilities to immediately establish an ADI. It allows you to conduct your intended banking business from the granting of your licence. You must demonstrate you meet the full prudential framework and be ready to commence banking business. The restricted pathway is suitable if you do not currently have the resources and capabilities to establish an ADI and need time to develop them. The restricted pathway allows you to conduct limited banking business as a Restricted ADI, for a maximum of two years, before needing to meet the requirements of the full prudential framework. This pathway can assist you in seeking the investment required to operationalise your business and test your operational model, while progressing compliance with the full prudential framework and your application for an ADI licence. The pathway that is suitable for you will depend on your particular circumstances. Please contact APRA’s licensing team at licensing@apra.gov.au to discuss the most suitable pathway for your proposition. Full details of the licensing process for both the direct and restricted pathways, including the need for early engagement with APRA, application requirements and the assessment process, are set out in the below guidelines. Guidelines - Licensing Locally-incorporated ADIs Overseas Banks An overseas bank that wishes to conduct banking business and provide services to wholesale clients in Australia may do so as a foreign ADI and establish an Australian branch. An Australian branch of a foreign ADI forms part of the same legal entity as its head office. Foreign ADIs are not subject to capital requirements by APRA, but will need to meet other local regulatory requirements applicable to its business. An overseas bank that wishes to conduct banking business and provide services to retail clients in Australia will need to establish a locally-incorporated subsidiary. A locally-incorporated subsidiary ADI is a separate legal entity from its overseas parent and will need to meet local capital requirements and all local regulatory requirements on a stand-alone basis. This includes having local governance arrangements, such as a local board. Overseas bank applicants must satisfy APRA that they are subject to adequate supervision in their home country and must have received consent from their home supervisor for establishing a banking operation in Australia. Please refer to the guidelines below if you are considering establishing a banking presence in Australia. Guidelines - Overseas Banks Operating in Australia Purchased payment facility providers A purchased payment facility (PPF) is a facility under which a holder of stored value makes payment to another person on behalf of the user of the facility. Regulatory oversight of PPF providers is split between APRA, the Australian Securities and Investment Commission and the Reserve Bank of Australia. APRA authorises large PPF providers whose facilities are widely available and accepted as a means of payment, and are redeemable for Australian currency on demand by the user. PPF providers form a special class of ADI that is licensed to undertake a limited range of banking activities. A PPF provider licence is subject to a number of conditions imposed under the Banking Act. If you have an ADI licence and are authorised to carry on general banking business, you are considered to already be authorised to be a PPF provider. You are not required to obtain any additional authorisation or meet any additional prudential requirements. On 6 November 2020, the government released the report of the Council of Financial Regulators’ (CFR) review of the regulation of stored-value facilities (SVFs) in Australia. The CFR’s report can be found here . APRA welcomes the Government endorsement of the recommendations of the CFR review and is continuing to work with CFR agencies to develop an updated regulatory approach. Guidelines on authorisation of providers of purchased payment facilities Financial Sector (Collection of Data) Act 2001 If your business is only proposing to provide finance and is not proposing to take deposits then you do not require an ADI licence from APRA. However your business may still be required to be registered by APRA under the Financial Sector (Collection of Data) Act 2001. For more information on the registration requirements, see the relevant pages on the APRA website. Applying to use restricted words under the Banking Act It is important that the general public has confidence about whether or not they are dealing with an authorised bank due to the trusted role banks hold in the community. As such, a financial business (other than an ADI) must obtain consent from APRA before using a restricted word or expression. These words include bank, banker and banking, but also extend to similar words or expressions, even if they are not in English, such as neobank, banc or banq. The intent is to limit the use of restricted terms by financial businesses that are not ADIs to very rare and unusual circumstances. As an ADI licence applicant, you may wish to register a company (legal entity) and/or business (trading) name which includes a restricted word. Once you have lodged your licence application with APRA you can request APRA’s consent to do this. If consent is granted by APRA it will usually be subject to conditions, such as not using the company and/or business name publicly prior to licensing. Non-financial businesses and financial businesses not seeking an APRA licence can find more information about applying to APRA to use restricted words. Guidelines: Restricted Words under the Banking Act August 2018 Subscribe for updates To receive media releases, publications, speeches and other industry-related information by email Subscribe Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) - click to go to the home page APRA on LinkedIn Site navigation Open/Close Menu About APRA About us Consultations Careers Media Contact us Information publication scheme Royal Commission recommendations Open/Close Menu Using APRA.GOV.AU Accessibility Disclaimer AI Transparency Statement Privacy Copyright Glossary Notify a breach Security Sitemap Open/Close Menu Extranet Taxonomy changes Plain English Taxonomy Open/Close Menu Related sites Australian Securities and Investments Commission Reserve Bank of Australia Other related sites APRA acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of the lands and waters of Australia and pays respect to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples past and present. We would like to recognise our Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander employees who are an integral part of our workforce. © Australian Prudential Regulation Authority 2026